# CWE-307: Improper Restriction of Excessive Authentication Attempts

**Severity**: 7.3

**CVSS Vector String**: AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L

### Description

The system lacks proper restrictions on excessive authentication attempts, making it vulnerable to brute force attacks.
This means that an attacker can repeatedly attempt to log in using various username and password combinations until they find a match.

### Exploitation

To exploit this vulnerability, an attacker can use automated script or tools to perform a large number of login attempts in a short period of time.


### Mitigations

To mitigate this vulnerability we used the **Django Axes** package (a Django plugin) that allows us to keep track of suspicious login attempts, more specifically it keeps track of every login attempt and keeps record of them.


When the number of failed login attempts exceeds 5, the user (using the ip-address-user ) is forbidden to log in for 10 minutes (if the user makes a successful login before 5 fails, the fails record gets empty again).

In order to limit unsuccessful login attempts, we must add the following to the `online_shop/settings.py` file in the secure app:

```py
# Allow 5 logins every 10 minutes
AXES_FAILURE_LIMIT = 5
AXES_COOLOFF_TIME = 10/60
```

### Demonstration

This section shows a video of *trying to exploit the vulnerability after it's been fixed*:

- The user, unsuccessfully, tries 5 times to login. The 6th try is blocked. He can only try again after another 10 minutes.


https://github.com/detiuaveiro/1st-project-group_04/assets/97046574/fb7f8425-6974-4c3c-9c96-2657894d3379

